there were a lot of strange ironies in
the discourse that ensued after my video
my video that dared to question whether
or not really the government of France
should spend hundreds of millions of
dollars to rebuild
[Music]
it's not so great at use of your time as
a viewer it's not so radius of my time
for me to be unpacking and explaining
and reflecting on those ironies the sad
fact is that in the same way that most
people who call themselves vegan
activists are fake vegans most people
who call themselves atheist activists
are fake atheists they fundamentally
have no vision of the future in which
December is not dominated by Christmas
and in which the streets of Paris are
not dominated by cathedrals the streets
of Paris the streets of Montreal I think
even if you go to other colonial
countries like Australia the extent to
which that Christian legacy dominates
your daily life and they will excuse
this as cultural heritage and tradition
they'll use all the same excuses they're
familiar with making for why they still
celebrate Christmas while being
quote-unquote atheists they'll now
extend to architecture and if you stop
and ask them when you think about the
future of Indonesia when you think about
the future of Malaysian when you think
about the future of Saudi Arabia is that
what you want for those places is for
the Dominion of Islam to go on forever
and ever
for Islam to always dominate the
calendar for Islam to always dominate
the streets the physical geography the
social geography for Islam to always
dominate education so the children are
always going to Islamic education and
then very simply you can change the word
Islam to Christianity and say well why
is it you have no vision for the future
in the Western world where Christianity
doesn't dominate our lives in this way
the reason why this is so hard for
people to cope with I mean of course
partly it's just shocking it's just
shocking to be the one person who dares
to question spending millions and
perhaps 1 billion dollars on rebuilding
notre-dame Cathedral but that that shock
aside the discourse I'm trying to engage
in here doesn't fall neatly into
familiar categories like rights and
freedoms it doesn't fall neatly into a
question of separation of church and
state do you have the right to do this
do you have the freedom to that and when
I talk about December being dominated by
Christmas
I'm not talking about oppression I'm not
talking about the church coming and
terrorizing me and oppressing me and
forcing me to celebrate Christmas that's
not what happens we're getting into a
gray area here of talking about
long-term cultural change institutional
change education and ultimately
government policy all right my daughter
has grown up in France for primary home
is in France on the streets of France
the architecture that surrounds her is
Christian all of the architectural
monuments there are from century after
century showing different architectural
styles there are Gothic cathedrals
everywhere it's a huge part of her
childhood in her form of Education in
school and her supposedly secular school
she hears about Christmas like every day
for two months of the year on the
streets again
for about a month I suppose Christmas
decorations Christmas fairs are paid for
and encouraged by the city government
think by the provincial and federal
government also you know there are all
kinds of celebrations of in declarations
of Christmas that make it a dominating
part of her childhood they make it very
difficult to raise a child knowing look
is something special about you you're
not one of the people who celebrates
Christmas
okay now Buddhism doesn't have that role
in French society it's not the case that
there's one month the year where there
are all kinds of decorations put up to
celebrate the birth of the Buddha or the
death of the Buddha for that matter or
them but as attaining Nirvana for them
and no it's not the case that at public
expense or private smells it's not the
case that over time just let the
centuries go by and life in Paris or
life in any other city in France will
start to have a cosmopolitan and equal
representation of different religions
and around the world it's not the case
that Buddhism and Hinduism will start to
be equally represented in education in
the calendar in the culture no and in a
sense when you shift from these more
formal measures of culture to the
informal measures to the the commercial
culture the role that Santa Claus has in
life equivalent to something like Batman
and Superman and Mickey Mouse just the
the commercialized way in which
these traditions rooted in Christianity
then become part of the daily lives of
children this is a profound long-term
knock-on effect now what's the plan for
the future guys where are we gonna be in
here if this is the Brady 2019 where are
we gonna be in 2050
the answer coming back from these
atheist discussion forums and even from
complete hypocrite atheist leaders like
Richard Dawkins is oh no
this so-called cultural heritage can go
on forever and ever
it can go on with an unlimited budget
that it can and should be continued
forever and the counter-argument is
difficult for people to make precisely
because we're talking with the extent to
which culturally Christianity dominates
our lives and it's it's easier to see
when you talk about someone who's an
atheist trying to live in a Muslim
majority kind of think wow that must be
hard
it must be hard walking around the
streets of you know Islamabad or walking
around the streets of riad or any of
these Muslim atrocities and just being
surrounded all the time by the call to
prayer being surrounded all the time by
you know Islamic architecture so on and
so forth and by the public celebration
of Islamic festivals right gee that must
be hard to be an atheist doing that do
you not see that it's hard to be an
atheist and raise a child in Montreal
Canada do you not see the way in which
it's hard to be an atheist and raise a
child in Paris because of the cultural
domination of that society
by Christianity in various forms its
domination but it's not oppression right
and these kinds of cultural expectations
have an insidious role in our lives I'm
divorced now when I was married to my
max wife my ex-wife and I we went to see
a doctor during her pregnancy and we got
tests and this doctor was freaking out
this doctor was not composed was not
this doctor was not talking to us in a
rational down-to-earth matter the story
was really shaking up because one of the
tests came back with a worrying sign for
the health of the baby turned out to be
completely fake but doesn't matter false
shouldn't say fake turned out to be
false we did more tests and things were
fine but at that moment this doctor is
like trembling and upset and really
freaked out because you've got a bad
so I want to know more about the science
behind this test result and what does
this mean and the doctor is not able to
answer these questions she's shaken up
and she says to us just go home and pray
to God it's not a nurse it's not the
secretary this is a professional medical
doctor who told us to go home and pray
to God no I'm still not oppressed
freedom of speech doctors have the right
to say that and I had the right to say
back to her hey you know what when I
have a medical and scientific problem in
my life I'm interested in medical and
scientific information and I do not pray
to God she was show so shaken up this
woman this doctor she says back to us
said oh boy if you don't pray to God
then just go home and pray to Buddha or
pray to Vishnu or pray to whoever you
praise him and ahead see her again
I do not pray to any gods poor not even
what Buddhism is about as a religion
frankly but that's the story um it was a
very dramatic and very tense scene and
this woman the doctor she was wearing
traditional Muslim headscarf traditional
hair covering traditional flowing kind
of robe under her lab coat okay she was
I guess an Orthodox Muslim person or
however you want to put it she was a
strict observer of the Islamic religion
who had migrated to Canada and was
working in this doctor's office okay why
do we have this conversation what what's
the background to all this well I can
tell you it's exactly a form of cultural
Dominion cultural done as she's grown up
with an education and a set of
expectations it doesn't occur to her
that it's immoral or inappropriate for
her to say to us in these circumstances
just go home and pray to God all right
and it is immoral it's deeply immoral
even if we
believe in God even if we were also
Christian or something it would be
immoral it would be wrong to say this to
a patient to a customer I want to say in
these circumstances at a hospital or in
a doctor's office now we had another
encounter with a Muslim male doctor at
the same clinic same same office I don't
know I think they were married I think
they were husband wife but I don't know
that but there was another doctors and
male doctor and my wife went in to
report to him a bunch of concerns
related to pregnancy in her and her
health and he was okay up to a point and
then the moment the word vagina came up
which has to come up guys pregnancy and
childbirth lates to China he completely
freaked out again he was trembling and
messed up and looking down putting his
face his hand and saying and he said
this all in a gush of words that he
wants nothing to do with women's health
or women women's reproductive health he
refuses to have anything to do with that
he wants to focus on men's health and if
she has any problems of that kind
relating to pregnancy her health she
should go talk to another medical doctor
he's he's not gonna handle it this was
really unprofessional behavior this guy
had a complete freak out if he happened
to be Muslim I had one other experience
like this with a woman who was a white
Christian she was working she was a not
an x-ray technician she was an
ultrasound technician so he does this
scanning to show you the baby she was a
white Christian woman who grown up with
this white Christian education to such
an extent that she literally could not
say the word penis or vagina and like
this came up it's like we're doing an
ultrasound we want to know the gender of
the baby talking you and it's like wow
you're really bent out of shape by
having a Christian upbringing okay in
this way
profoundly and pervasively christianity
and islam are forces that dominate and
shape our culture and just tell me how
is it gonna end
when is it gonna change these a theists
these so-called atheist these fake
atheists can sit back and feel morally
superior to me and say oh oh you don't
understand anything ISM at all hey
true atheist celebrates Christmas Oh a
true atheist pays 1 billion US dollars
to to rebuild the notre-dame Cathedral
oh no no you must be some kind of Luna
trip you must be some kind of maniac to
be talking about a long-term cultural
change well guess who's winning guys
this is already to 2019 centuries and
centuries have gone passed since the
French Revolution centuries and
centuries of gone past since the
fundamental idea of having a society
built on reason and not on endlessly
continuing the cultural ossification of
the past the cultural assumptions the
cultural accretions of the past this
fundamental challenge to worshipping
tradition simply because it's
traditional and not questioning whether
it's true or good or useful at what
point do we stop circumcising our
children because we know it's medically
and morally wrong and at what point do
we start passing laws for public safety
to prevent parents from making that
decision on behalf of their children and
cutting off pieces of their bodies it
scars them for the rest of their lives
at what point does that happen guys and
who are the leaders in this so-called
atheist movement who are even willing to
ask those questions why is it that
there's censorship within Reddit within
Reddit atheist groups that will not let
my point of view be heard that insists
and enforces uniformity of opinion that
says this reddit group is committed to
the opinion that this is a tragedy that
the Notre Dame Cathedral burnt down and
that it must be rebuilt and nobody else
led a comment anyone who says to the
contrary will have their have their
contribution deleted or will be banned
from the discussion that's where we're
at in 2019 that's where we're at
because so-called atheist movement is by
and for fake atheists it's by and for
people who don't even have enough of a
long-term vision to think about their
own children's future just one
generation and how it is you can raise
your own children not being culturally
and conceptually dominated by forces
like yeah Santa Claus Christmas Gees
and ultimately these are gonna have
impacts not just on government policy
not just on how schools are organized
not just on what textbooks are used
ultimately this is something that has to
have an impact on the physical and
social geography of our cities I don't
want the future of Saudi Arabia to be
dominated by Islam forever and ever and
I don't want the future of Montreal
Canada to be dominated by the genocide a
legacy of the Catholic Church because in
Canada it is genocide and there's no way
you can justify spending millions of
dollars on the notre-dame Cathedral as
if it were a Holocaust Museum it's the
very opposite this isn't something
telling you the history of the Christian
Holocaust this would be the equivalent
of putting millions of dollars into an
institution that is Pro Holocaust that's
celebrating the greatness of that same
institution during centuries and
centuries of slavery feudalism Hall cost
all the barbarity of the dark ages
okay Emanuel Mack crawl would be in a
very difficult position if he stood up
and as a leader said hey guys the future
of France cannot be the endless
repetition and worship of our past if
we're going to rebuild the notre-dame
Cathedral we can't make it into a
second-rate imitation of what it was we
have to come up with something better
even if that's something better is a
museum explaining to the people of Paris
the history of their own City the
history of the role of religion maybe
the history of the French Revolution too
if it was doing something to played a
positive educational role for the future
of that culture and wasn't trying to
simply celebrate the worst aspects of
its medieval past people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you
I don't know